Helooo guysss......
Ya....iam here with some intresting topic for u ....
Now a days eloctronic devices are playing a major role in ou life.To say frankly we are too addicted to them,and offcourse we cant live without
them right. 
ya this is well known to everyone.WE are habbituated to eloctronic appliances ...for sure right,so you people are giving much importance 
to these devices ...guyss not only using of these devices.... u should aware of each and  very eloctronic appliances to monitor urself.
so genarally in every home,classes,offices,every working places etc...we are under electronic devices.So guyss not only using of such appliances 
we should know how to save and not to waste electricity by this appliances.
Here in every working place many of them busy in their own works and they wont check whether the electronic devices are ON/OFF even they 
leave that particular place.so this should not happen...
to overcome these type of situations .....every thing is developed in this modern days.
So we all know about sensors right.
BY the sensors we can save electricity and not to waste it frequently.So there will be a sensors like it identify whether the person is there 
in a particular room or not ......so if the person is not in that particular room then the electronic appliances such as fan,airconditioners
lights etc will stop automatically.this will be very complicated.

Those sensors are:

The Passive Infrared (PIR) sensor is used to detect the presence of human.
But this detects the human only if they are in motion. ... The Grid-EYE sensor detects the human using the infrared 
radiation radiated by the human body. Every human radiates the infrared energy of specific wavelength range.

There are three sensors used for the automationprocess. when a person crosses the PIR sensor it will
sense the person and occupancy sensor will starts thecounting. This is displayed in the LCD usingArduino program. After that, the fan and light will
switch on automatically as soon as the persons aredetected by both the sensors. Thermistor works onthe common fact as the temperature increases the 
output voltage across the diode increaseswhereas the rotational speed will be simultaneouslyincreases. 
When the system is placed on LDR, theplace will appear dark. Then the signal will be send to Arduino which is connected to the gear motor.

1. PIR SENSOR:
 A Passive Infrared Sensor is an electronic sensorthat measures infrared(IR) light radiating from objects in its field of view. They are most often used
in PIR based motion detectors. PIR is used to sense the movement of people by detecting the heat energy radiated from the body. Usually this radiation is
invisible to the human eye because it radiates at infrared wavelengths, but it can be detected by electronic devices designed for such a purpose.

2 .OCCUPANCY SENSOR:
 An occupancy sensor is a lighting control device that detects occupancy and count the persons inside the room and send the signal to the Arduino.
 The exact count of the persons will displayed in the LCD module the L293D bridge. Gear motor will help thescreens to move in both forward and reverse direction.

TEMPERATURE SENSOR:
Temperature sensor is a device, typically inArduino, LM35 temperature sensor is used forsensing Environment temperature which gives 1
degree temperature on every 10mv changes it outputpin.
  Characteristics
LM35 sensor works on the basis of the common fact,as temperature increases, the voltage across a diode increases at a known rate. The IC has output of10mv/degree centigrade. In theoretical
experimentation when the temperature is 45 degreethen the output of sensor will be 450mv or 0.45v .Thesensed temperature will be the input for the
microcontroller ATMEGA328 such thatmicrocontroller is programmed using ARDUINOsoftware. Based on the program, the driver circuit
will rotate the fan. The room temperature willdisplayed using LCD.

4. LCD MODULE:
 LCD-Liquid Crystal Display is an electronic device for displaying text or references. The LCD display is interfaced with Arduino to display the
count of persons and temperature values. 16x2 LCD display that means 2 rows, each of 16 characters. LCD’s are economical and easily programmable and
can easily display special and conventional cases.LCD makes the system user-friendly. 

5 .LDR:
 It is a passive device working with the principle of photo conductivity. The resistance of the photoresistor decreases
with increasing incident light intensity. When the system is placed on LDR, the place will appear dark.
Then the signal will be send to Arduino which is connecte d to the gear motor through the L293D bridge. Gear motor will help the screens to move in
both forward and reverse direction.

6. FEATURES OF ARDUINO:
 The operating voltage of ATMEGA 328 is 5V.The recommended input voltage is 7-12V and
limited input voltage is 6-20V. There are 14 digital input output pins and 6 analog input pins. DC current
per I/O pins is about 40mA, DC current for 3.3V pin is about 50mA. Flash memory is 16KB for ATMEGA168 and for ATMEGA328 is 32KB of
which 2KB used by bootloader. SRAM for ATMEGA168 is 1KB and for ATMEGA328 is 2KB.EEPROM is about 512 bytes for ATMEGA168, and
1KB for ATMEGA328. The clock speed is 16MH.

7. RELAY:
 Relays are electrically controlled switches. In usual type, a coil pulls in an armature when sufficient
coil current flows. Relays are available for dc or ac excitation, and coil voltages from 5 volts up to 110
volts are common. The electrical relay offers a simple on / off switching action in response to a control
signal. When a current flows through the coil of wire a magnetic field is produced.

8.L293D(H-BRIDGE):The H-bridge is an electronic circuit that enables a voltage to be applied across a load in either
direction. These circuit used in s to run forwards and backwards. Most DC-to-AC
converters, most AC-to-AC converters, DC-toDC push pull converter, most motor controllers, and
many other kinds of power electronics use H bridges.Here, H-bridge is used as a bridge between Arduino
and Gear motor. The signal will be send to arduino which is connected to the gear motor through the
L293D bridge. This will allow the motor to rotate in forward and reverse directions.
IV. CONCLUSION:
 In this project, we instantly infers the power wastage in the class rooms. The knowledge derived
from our estimation can enable many variable applications for social good such as effective
utilization of the available power and we consider our project as a contribution for developing smart city.Thus we address the problem by establishing a smart
class room. By observing the above details, we conclude that this techniques can also be
implemented at collage level, Institute level. Which we will going to design a new project that is “SMART CLASSROOM”.

And mobile app can be developed to receive notifications when the lights or fans etc is ON when the person is not there.
This is of about smart classroom.




